
PyNIO ("pie-nee-oh") is a Python module that allows read and/or write
access to a variety of scientific data formats (NetCDF 3/4, GRIB1,
GRIB2, HDF4, HDF-EOS2, HDF-EOS5, shapefile, CCM History tape) using an
interface modelled on NetCDF. 

Use of this software implies agreement of the PyNIO source code
license:

  http://www.pyngl.ucar.edu/Licenses/PyNIO_source_license.shtml

You can import this package with:

  import Nio
For inline documentation:
  print Nio.__doc__
 
Since building from source can be challenging and time-consuming, we
recommend that you install this package using conda. Conda install packages
are currently available for 64-bit Linux and Macintosh OSX systems. 
As a prerequisite, you will need to set up an anaconda or miniconda environment.
See https://www.continuum.io/downloads for anaconda or 
http://conda.pydata.org/miniconda.html for miniconda. Miniconda is a lighter
weight version of anaconda. Both are easy to install -- anaconda just takes 
longer.

Once your environment is up and runing, installing PyNIO is easy. All the necessary
dependencies are installed automatically. Currently there are two versions: 
PyNIO 1.4.3 and PyNIO 1.5.0-beta. PyNIO 1.4.3 uses a NetCDF3 type interface; it 
supports NetCDF4-Classic file features such as compression, but it does not read or
write full NetCDF4 files. PyNIO 1.5.0-beta has still-evolving support for the full
NetCDF4 and HDF5 data models with access to groups, user-defined compound data 
types and variable length arrays. 
Install PyNIO 1.4.3 using:

  conda install -c ncar pynio
  
Install PyNIO 1.5.0-beta using:

  conda install -c dbrown pynio

Since PyNIO uses the C-API of the NumPy array package, it must be built separately
for each major NumPy revision. Currently there are conda-installable versions of
PyNIO for versions of NumPy from 1.6.x to 1.10.x. For now, it requires Python 2.7.x,
but a Python 3+ version should be available soon.

For full documentation, see:

  http://www.pyngl.ucar.edu/Nio.shtml

Bug reports and feedback are appreciated (see email addresses below).

David Brown and Mary Haley
National Center for Atmospheric Research
1850 Table Mesa Drive
Boulder, CO  80305
USA
E-Mail: dbrown@ucar.edu, haley@ucar.edu

Installing from source:
---------

Source code installation is not trivial. See the INSTALL file
in this directory.

Examples and tests:
---------

There are some PyNIO tests in the "test" directory and examples in the "examples"
directory. 


